>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
this actually shouldn't be too bad.
I'm gonna do a quick demonstration and
I'm gonna wire up one call, and
then I'm going to turn over the challenge.
And I'm gonna let everyone kind of
play around with the end point and
the goal is to actually hook up widgets
to communicate with your REST server.
So just to reiterate,
our endpoint is if you go
to local host 3000.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We
have this widgets endpoint here
that we're going to be consuming.
And so for instance, if you wanted
to get a, I'm in standard REST.
So the entire collection, if you
wanted to get a single collection or
a single item from the collection and
so on.
So this is what we're going to be
communicating with and wiring up.
So hopping into the code,
let's go to our widget service.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm gonna do one thing
real quick.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm just gonna
copy this,
cuz I'm not gonna remember that.
So let's set our base URL.
In this case, its widgets and
then I created a header that we use.
So now let's create a method called,
well, actually I'm forgetting something.
So if I'm going to make an HTTP call,
I have a dependency obviously
on that module and that service.
So let's do our constructor,
private_http.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
now it is available to us.
From here, let's do.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll load widgets and
see if I can do this from memory.
So return this.http.get.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Paste URL.
So this is using a string literal and
this is gonna come back,
and we need to convert it.
So we're gonna go response.
We're gonna convert this into json.
And we're going to leave it at this, so
I think I did this right.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What I'm
also going to do.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is I'm
going to delete this.
And apparently,
I already have a constructor in there.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: LoadWidgets, so
we get base ur.
[SOUND] Let's go into
our.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Widgets
component here.
You can see already,
it's saying like like what happened here?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
we're going to delete this,
cuz we're no longer referencing
a static collection and.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We're
going to create a method
called loadWidgets.
This is slightly arbitrary, you could
call it, could be something, anything.
Let's try something here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I don't like
to put it all the way down here.
Sometimes, the widget's.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
from here, we're going to go
this.widgetsService.loadwidgets and
how do we consume an observable string?
>> Speaker 2: Subscribe.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Subscribe, good.
We're going to subscribe.
And from here, we'll go widgets equals
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
I think this is everything.
Well, let's find out.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
it appeared to be working.
Let's double check this.
So I'm gonna go into server,
go into our JSON file and remote red
widget.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's
refresh the page.
There we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
this is pretty straight forward.
We'll call it http.git, putting in
the end point and then we're basically
just returning the results and
you've seen that subscribe to consume it.
So let me go just a step further and
let's look at the items service.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So I have these names
a little messed up, but
I wouldn't worry about that.
So we just basically did this one here,
all.
So I'm actually going to just for
consistency.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll call this
all.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now
this is the one I just did, all.
You can see here, load.
Pretty straightforward,
we're getting a single one.
We're just updating the endpoint.
Create actually takes a new item.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
instead of get, we're doing post.
We're returning our payload into a string
or basically back into a string,
or passing in the header.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
now this is kind of,
I had to fiddle with this a bit and
kind of search around on the internet
to figure out how to get this working.
But this was the secret handshake for
in this case.
Now update,
pretty much the same exact thing.
The difference is you're
updating an existing item, so
you just add the ID to the endpoint.
So this renders out as widgets,
forward slash,
whatever this ID is and it updates it.
Delete, pretty much the same thing,
except we're passing in an item, updating.
The endpoint would then
be widget four slash,
whatever ID of the item you
wanna delete and there we go.
Now, we'll actually talk about
this a little bit later.
Actually, I think in two
more modules from now.
I will show you one other thing and
then we'll go to our challenge
is that in the item's component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Notice I'm
calling getItems, which is doing pretty
much what I just did for widgets.
Now, I have save item.
What I'm doing here,
is I'm checking, is there an ID?
If there is an ID, I call update.
If not, I call create.
And what's happening in here and
in production, I would not do this.
But for here, for the sake of kind
of a coherent user experience,
when we get a response from the server,
I'm simply just rehydrating the items.
And the reason why I'm doing this is, so
I'm saying create this item at the server.
And once I know that it's done,
go ahead and give me all of them and
just rehydrate.
Or if you delete, you say,
I've deleted this item from the server.
Go ahead and
just get me a fresh collection.
What this will allow you to do is
especially if you have more than one
person working on an endpoint,
you may create something, but
they may delete something.
And so you're data model may be stale and
there's situations where that can happen.
So for me, I think one of the easiest
defaults is like can I just refresh
the collection or rehydrate it every
time I make a change at the server?
This is what I'm doing.
What you can also do is
change it in memory.
So if you need it to be really
fast like we've added this,
add it in memory, go do the server call.
And if it succeeds, then just let it ride.
If not, then you just roll it back.
And so this is for instance,
like things like Firebase and
I have some really sophisticated
technology of like we did this thing.
And behind the scenes, it failed
like we just have to rule it back.
And so this is in this case, I'm doing
kind of the easiest thing possible and
that's like go do this thing and then just
refresh everything, just clear the desk.
And somebody could say, well, like
you're doing the same thing like twice.
Like couldn't you extract this out?
I could and
if I were going to take another
iteration on this, I probably would.
This is merely a placeholder for,
if I were going to actually do this,
I would extend it into like NGRX and
this is where this would happen.
And so this is actually, would not be
a final input for me in the application.
But you can see here create,
update, delete.
What's interesting is the only
logic I have in this container.
Component is right here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Everything
else is actually delegating
out to a service.
I suppose maybe whether loose sense of
what this might be consider it, what?
It's an expression, but the only thing
that is actually saying if this or that or
doing some kind of thinking,
it's this method right here.
The reason being is I'm just capturing
things and delegating it out.
So even as a container component,
this is very thin and efficient.
Because it's just pulling in data.
Hydrating its child components.
And when something happens, it's capturing
that event and delegating it back out.